From jonathan.gray at okfn.org  Tue Jun  2 13:20:55 2009
From: jonathan.gray at okfn.org (Jonathan Gray)
Date: Tue, 2 Jun 2009 14:20:55 +0200
Subject: [open-science] Reminder: Working Group on Open Data in Science
	virtual meeting today!
Message-ID: <54ca21750906020520n33cf58ana7d6bd6cec739041@mail.gmail.com>

A reminder that the  Working Group on Open Data in Science virtual
meeting will take place later today:

  * When: 1600 GMT (1700 BST, 1800 CEST)
  * Where: #okfn IRC channel on oftc.net (connect via mibbit at
http://ur1.ca/4fh)
  * Wiki page: http://wiki.okfn.org/wg/science/1

-- 
Jonathan Gray

Community Coordinator
The Open Knowledge Foundation
http://www.okfn.org


From jonathan.gray at okfn.org  Tue Jun  2 14:03:19 2009
From: jonathan.gray at okfn.org (Jonathan Gray)
Date: Tue, 2 Jun 2009 15:03:19 +0200
Subject: [open-science] Fwd: Just out today: "Dissemination and publication
	of datasets in taxonomy"
In-Reply-To: <e74b7bec0906011129h4b43bb5cqffa4b69a0d2f8f65@mail.gmail.com>
References: <e74b7bec0906011129h4b43bb5cqffa4b69a0d2f8f65@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <54ca21750906020603n1bcdf4cbla6a93d4daf645e68@mail.gmail.com>

Many thanks for this Tom! I've forwarded to the open-science list!

Jonathan

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Tom Moritz <tom.moritz at gmail.com>
Date: Mon, Jun 1, 2009 at 8:29 PM
Subject: Just out today: "Dissemination and publication of datasets in taxonomy"
To: John Wilbanks <wilbanks at creativecommons.org>, Jonathan Gray
<jonathan.gray at okfn.org>


http://pensoftonline.net/zookeys/index.php/journal

I jumped into this at "the 11th hour" -- tried editing and revising as
best I could...

Comments are welcome...
T.



Tom Moritz
1968 1/2 South Shenandoah Street,
Los Angeles, California 90034
USA
+1 310 963 0199 (cell)
+1 202 657 4198 (Skype)
http://www.linkedin.com/in/tmoritz



-- 
Jonathan Gray

Community Coordinator
The Open Knowledge Foundation
http://www.okfn.org


From gavin at gavinbaker.com  Wed Jun 10 18:47:49 2009
From: gavin at gavinbaker.com (Gavin Baker)
Date: Wed, 10 Jun 2009 13:47:49 -0400
Subject: [open-science] Student organizations call for Open Access to
	research
Message-ID: <4A2FF1C5.10200@gavinbaker.com>

http://www.arl.org/sparc/media/09-0610.shtml
http://www.righttoresearch.org/

National student organizations call for Open Access to research

Washington, DC -- A coalition of national and regional college student
associations today issued a "Student Statement on the Right to
Research," calling on universities, research funders, and researchers to
take action in support of Open Access to research. The American Medical
Student Association, the Student PIRGs, Students for Free Culture, and
Universities Allied for Essential Medicines, as well as the Trinity
University Association of Student Representatives and the California
Institute of Technology Graduate Student Council have signed the statement.

Students rely on access to academic journal literature for their
research and education. However, even before the recent economic crisis
many colleges have struggled with the high costs of journal
subscriptions, restricting access for students and scientists alike. The
statement reads, in part:

"Learning and inquiry are impeded when scholars lack access to fellow
researchers' work, and when students lack access to the work of scholars
before them.

At the same time, digital technologies have opened new opportunities for
research. New tools facilitate faster discoveries, speed the development
of new technologies, and accelerate the progress of science. Patients
could have access to the latest medical research, citizens could
evaluate scientific information on environmental impacts, and developing
countries could apply the most recent scholarship to public health and
development efforts. But access barriers leave these opportunities
under-explored.

Open Access is an alternative to the traditional closed,
subscription-access system of scholarly communication. Open Access makes
the results of scholarly research available online for free, immediately
upon publication, and removes barriers for scholarly and educational
re-use. Entire journals can be open-access, or an author can provide
Open Access to an individual article by posting a copy on an openly
accessible Web site.  All forms of open-access publication depend on
rigorous methods of quality control, including peer review."

The full text of the statement is online at http://www.righttoresearch.org.

"As both taxpayers and students, we deserve access to the research that
our tuition and tax dollars have financed," said Nick Shockey, recent
graduate and Student Senator at Trinity University in San Antonio. "Our
education should not be limited by the number of journal subscriptions
our library can afford -- a number that is drastically shrinking with
recession-induced budget cuts at universities across the country."

Laura Janneck of the American Medical Student Association added, "As
medical students, we need full access to the best and latest research to
have the most accurate and up-to-date education. As future doctors, we
know patients deserve access to the same research. Open Access ensures
that students, scientists, and the public can all access the best
information, to improve health, education, and scholarship."

"The student voice is growing louder, more clear, and more compelling in
the discussion on access to research," said Heather Joseph, Executive
Director of SPARC (the Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources
Coalition). "Financial pressures are driving libraries, universities and
colleges, as well as students to more closely examine the return on
their investment in resources. Our young colleagues, whose education
relies on access to quality scholarship, are absolutely right to make
research access a focal cause." SPARC helped to coordinate discussions
that led to the launch of this statement and sponsors the statement Web
site.

The "Student Statement on the Right to Research" closes with a call to
action -- urging universities, governments and other research funders,
researchers, and additional student organizations to support Open Access
-- and a commitment to back Open Access in their activities.

Student organizations are invited to sign the statement at
http://www.righttoresearch.org.

-- 
Gavin Baker
http://www.gavinbaker.com/
gavin at gavinbaker.com

In the unlikely story that is America, there has never been anything
false about hope.
    Barack Obama


From rufus.pollock at okfn.org  Thu Jun 11 12:28:52 2009
From: rufus.pollock at okfn.org (Rufus Pollock)
Date: Thu, 11 Jun 2009 12:28:52 +0100
Subject: [open-science] Summary of first Working Group meeting last week
Message-ID: <b68e90820906110428j298ddfe3uc44bcd84e65b2ba8@mail.gmail.com>

Just wanted to let everyone know that the IRC transcript from last
week's Open Data in Science Working Group meeting are up on the
meeting page:

<http://wiki.okfn.org/wg/science/1>

I've also tried to create a rough summary which can be found below (if
anyone wants to amend or add to this summary please do -- it's just a
wiki page).

Rufus

== Summary ==

1. Draft "Panton Principles" were discussed.

  * Draft text is now up at <http://wiki.okfn.org/wg/science/panton_principles>
  * Seemed to be general consensus that these should focus on
exhortation (i.e. "strongly recommend" rather than "thou shalt" or RFC
"must")
  * Suggestion to create appendices relating to specific issues (e.g.
formats, specific discussion of non-commercial)

2. Prize was discussed

  * What form should prize take and should it be general or focused on
particular disciplines
  * Is money needed? (Is prestige enough)
  * How do we make it prestigious
  * Who could help fund/support it

3. Discussion of recent developments (see irc)

  * Also general ask to the community (e.g. open-science list) for
news items on open data in science

== Participants ==

  * Cameron Neylon
  * John Wilbanks
  * Jonathan Gray
  * Rufus Pollock
  * Jenny Molloy
  * Puneet Kishor
  * Egon Willighagen
  * Tom Keays
  * Amrapali Zaveri
  * Michele Mattioni
  * Shreyasee Pradhan
  * + several lurkers!


From stuart.macdonald at ed.ac.uk  Thu Jun 18 15:21:39 2009
From: stuart.macdonald at ed.ac.uk (Stuart Macdonald)
Date: Thu, 18 Jun 2009 15:21:39 +0100
Subject: [open-science] Beyond the Repository Fringe 2009 - Call for
	Participation
Message-ID: <4A3A4D73.7040607@ed.ac.uk>

Beyond the Repository Fringe 2009 ? Call for Participation

Place:		Informatics Forum, University of Edinburgh
Date:		30th/31st July 2009
Wiki: 		http://wiki.repositoryfringe.org/
Email:		rf09 at ed.ac.uk
Hashtag: 	#RF09

Sponsored by JISC, the Beyond the Repository Fringe 2009 event will be 
hosted by the University of Edinburgh with support from the Digital 
Curation Centre, the School of Informatics, EDINA, and Information 
Services, as well as UKOLN and EPrints.

This year the Repository Fringe organisers aim to draw on and showcase a 
range of inspirational repository developments, including those produced 
from the JISC Rapid Innovation and Repository and Preservation 
programmes, plus various ?barcamps?, ?hackdays? and repository challenges.

Designed for an audience of developers, repository managers and 
practitioners, the programme retains an ?unconference? feel to it, and 
seeks to canvass contribution from a wide range of repository actors for:

?	Live demonstrations of innovative work;
?	"Pecha Kucha" presentations on any subject relating to current, or 
future repository endeavours i.e. a presenter shows 20 images for 20 
seconds apiece, for a total time of 6 minutes, 40 seconds;
?	Round Table discussions;
?	Formal presentations or tutorials on related topics;
?	A ?Code Challenge? (details to be announced shortly).

Keynote speakers will open and close Beyond the Repository Fringe 2009 
and to accompany this event there will be a DCC Associates' Network 
meeting (delegates will be able to join the network and participate on 
the day) and a DISC-UK DataShare workshop on ?research data requirements 
and digital repositories?.

The dates of the event coincide with the start of the buzzing Edinburgh 
Festival season, which includes the Jazz and Blues Festival (31 July ? 9 
Aug), the Festival Fringe (7 Aug ? 31 Aug), the Edinburgh International 
Festival (14 Aug ? 6 Sept), and the Edinburgh Book Festival (15 Aug - 31 
Aug), as well as the usual impromptu street theatre, musicians and 
sideshows.

Register for this free event and sign up for a ?performance? of your 
choice at: http://beyondtherepositoryfringe-emailinvite.eventbrite.com/

University accommodation is available at pre-Festival prices on a 
first-come, first-served basis. To book please contact the Bed and 
Breakfast Team on 0131 651 2007 or email them at bed.breakfast at ed.ac.uk. 
Alternatively visit: 
http://www.edinburghfirst.com/accommodation/availability.asp


For further enquiries contact: rf09 at ed.ac.uk.


regards
Stuart Macdonald
on behalf of Repository Fringe Organising Committee

-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.



From stuart.macdonald at ed.ac.uk  Thu Jun 25 13:54:19 2009
From: stuart.macdonald at ed.ac.uk (Stuart Macdonald)
Date: Thu, 25 Jun 2009 13:54:19 +0100
Subject: [open-science] Beyond the Repository Fringe -  Code Challenge!
Message-ID: <4A43737B.40200@ed.ac.uk>

Repository Fringe Challenge 2009

See http://wiki.repositoryfringe.org/index.php/The_Challenge

We have flipped the idea of a Challenge on its head: instead of coming
to the event, and having two days to work on something of your own
devising, we have come up with the "Problem", and are giving you a full
month to come up with a solution!

The Challenge

     "Design a REPOSITORY FOCUSED/ENHANCEMENT service to a
researcher/academic/teacher that they would feel is intuitively useful
TO THEM PERSONALLY"

One caveat:

     The only information the researcher will type in and give your
service is their name, email, and possibly their current institution.

     Any other details that the service asks for will have to be hard
fought for and must provide instant positive results from the point of
view of the researcher.

Ideas

Some ideas for useful services:

     * 1-click deposit from any application or any item in any form?
No... We ask for miracles!
     * mining repos, research council data and other centres for the
abstracts of projects that the researcher has worked on, and use that to
get keywords which the service uses to find collegues working in similar
areas.
     * Compiling a list blog pages, tweets, journals, and websites which
mention the researcher and/or the researcher's work and providing the
researcher with a way to track how their individual efforts ripple
through their network.

Entering

So people, come to the event and pitch your ideas (based on the above
criteria) to a panel of judges. You are allowed to present anything from
a paper prototype, to a screencast, to a working UI, to a full-blown
prototype. The presentations will be part of the "Show and Tell"
sessions on the Friday afternoon.

The submissions are judged on both their appropriateness and their
technical achievability: this means that a paper prototype might well
beat working code if it satisfies these criteria AND is technically
feasible. If there is doubt about the feasibility of a design, the onus
is on the entrant to demonstrate this - so working code, all other
things being equal, will count for something.

The reward

Isn't taking part enough of a reward?

OK... there will be a first prize and two runners-up prizes. Details to
follow.

Also, if the judges so like a particular submission, then they may
recommend it for a small (up to ?5,000) grant to give the developer some
time to develop the idea into a working prototype. The actual amount
recommended will be at the discretion of the judges and will be based on
their assessment of how many days development might best be spent on this.

Register for this free event and sign up for a ?performance? of your
choice at: http://beyondtherepositoryfringe-emailinvite.eventbrite.com/

University accommodation is available at pre-Festival prices on a
first-come, first-served basis. To book please contact the Bed and
Breakfast Team on 0131 651 2007 or email them at bed.breakfast at ed.ac.uk.
Alternatively visit:
http://www.edinburghfirst.com/accommodation/availability.asp


For further enquiries contact: rf09 at ed.ac.uk.


Stuart Macdonald
RF09 Organising Committee


The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.




From kanzure at gmail.com  Thu Jun 25 14:32:38 2009
From: kanzure at gmail.com (Bryan Bishop)
Date: Thu, 25 Jun 2009 08:32:38 -0500
Subject: [open-science] Fwd: [tt] A conversation with Freeman Dyson
In-Reply-To: <20090625125509.GL23524@leitl.org>
References: <20090625125509.GL23524@leitl.org>
Message-ID: <55ad6af70906250632x29e2d05cv1420342eece6334e@mail.gmail.com>

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Eugen Leitl <eugen at leitl.org>
Date: Thu, Jun 25, 2009 at 7:55 AM
Subject: [tt] A conversation with Freeman Dyson
To: tt at postbiota.org



http://plus.maths.org/issue26/features/dyson/index.html

A conversation with Freeman Dyson

by Helen Joyce

Freeman Dyson has had a long and distinguished career in physics. The holder
of a Professorship at the Princeton Institute for Advanced Study for more
than 40 years, he did fundamental work on internal physics of stars and the
interactions of subatomic particle beams. He is the author of several popular
science books, advocates space colonisation and the search for
extraterrestrial life, and is a passionate speaker on topics as wideranging
as GM crops and the search for world peace.

He describes the way he does physics as "a sort of architecture done with
equations, rather than with bits of wood and steel". A self-confessed
optimist, he says that having unsolved problems is what makes life
interesting.

In the summer of 2003, Dyson gave the annual Dirac lecture at the University
of Cambridge, entitled Looking for Life in Unlikely Places. Afterwards, Plus
spoke to him about his life in science.

You can watch, or just listen to, the interview and lecture at
http://www.xscite.com/FreemanDyson.

Freeman Dyson

Freeman Dyson in the grounds of St. Johns College after delivering the Dirac
Lecture, June 2003. ?Photo and copyright Anna N. Zytkow

Why do you find maths fascinating?

I've never remembered a time when I wasn't in love with calculating. One of
the first memories I have was when I was still being put down for a nap in
the afternoons. I was in the crib and not able to climb out, and I was
calculating the infinite series, 1+1/2+1/4+1/8+1/16... and discovered that it
came out to 2. I remember that very vividly. It was a big moment when I found
that out. I just loved calculating. It's something you're born with - it
certainly didn't come from outside as far as I know.

The kind of math that I've done all my life is old-fashioned math. I never
became a modern mathematician, never learned any of the abstract stuff. What
I do is really nineteenth century, and it turns out of course that that is
what you need for applied math. The nineteenth century is a good place to
start if you want to be useful!

Is it possible, or desirable, to do physics without maths?

Yes. Dick Feynman, who was my mentor as a physicist, had very little math. He
never really thought in terms of mathematics; he had a very concrete
imagination. He drew pictures instead of making calculations, and somehow got
the right answers.

But of course he was really a unique character, not only in his work but also
in his personality. He had this remarkable vision of things, he called it the
space-time approach. It meant he could reconstruct the whole of physics from
his own point of view, without much in the way of equations. Instead of
writing down an equation and solving it he would just write down the answer,
which other people can't do. It was combined with some sort of geometrical
pictures he had in his head. There have been others like that - he's not the
only one - but it is unusual.

I work completely from a mathematical point of view, I was just the opposite.
I have to have an equation that I can solve. So I do it the old-fashioned
way, and then of course the fun was to understand what he was doing from my
point of view, which turned out to be very interesting - I was able to
translate his style into old-fashioned mathematics so other people could use
it.

What has your mathematical training brought to what you have done?

My main teacher as a mathematician was a wonderful gentleman called
Besicovitch who lived here in Cambridge. He was an emigre Russian, he talked
with a very thick Russian accent - he was a great character. My style as a
mathematician was strongly influenced by Besicovitch.

He worked on the borderline between geometry and set theory, both of which
are kind of nineteenth century. He did beautiful proofs which are kind of
architectural. Besicovitch's style was to take some rather simple question
and build up an enormously elaborate construction to show that such a thing
worked or didn't work and then get a very simple answer at the end. And
that's typical of the way I do physics. It's a sort of architecture done with
equations, rather than with bits of wood and steel.

Freeman Dyson and Martin Rees

Freeman Dyson with Martin Rees (centre) and Douglas Gough in the grounds of
St Johns College, Cambridge, June 2003. ?Photo and copyright Anna N. Zytkow

In your popular books you comment on topics that are not directly related to
your work as a physicist. So you obviously feel that mathematicians and
scients have a wide role to play in society as commentators or guides. What
motivates you in this wider search for meaning and truth?

I suppose the fact that my interests have always been very much broader than
my skills! My skills have always been just playing around with equations, but
there is much more to life than equations. I've been interested in big human
problems, and growing up through World War II I had an acute experience of
war. I was involved with the bombing campaign in World War II, so it gave me
the feeling that war and peace was something we have to deal with. So that's
always been a big driving force for me, coming to grips with the problems of
war and peace.

Freeman Dyson and Mike Green

Freeman Dyson with Mike Green, Martin Rees and John Barrow in the background,
in the grounds of St Johns College, Cambridge, June 2003. ?Photo and
copyright Anna N. Zytkow

I think the reason why scientists can deal with that is because we have an
additional qualification which is nothing to do with the technical parts of
science, which is that we are operating in an international community.
Science is about the most international activity there is. We have friends
and colleagues all over the world, including countries that are not supposed
to be respectable. It's a great tradition in science that you talk to
everybody and that you all understand the same things and you all understand
them in more or less the same way. So as scientists we're setting a model for
the world - how to operate a global enterprise without coming into collision.
I think that's something we can do much better than the politicians.

I worked for a while in the United States in the Disarmament Agency which was
the part of Government concerned with arms control. That was during the
Kennedy administration, so it was forty years ago. The Disarmament Agency was
just new then. It was only about 100 people in the whole administration. Ten
of us were scientists, and the other ninety were mostly ex-ambassadors and
diplomatic types and the ten scientists were doing all of the work, not
because we were experts on bombs, but because we were accustomed to talking
with the Russians and the Chinese and the other people who were supposed to
be bad guys, and the diplomats weren't. We really believed in coming to
agreements much more than the diplomats did.

I suppose that could be true of all academics - do you think it is more true
of scientists?

Well, I wouldn't say that dogmatically, but I do think it is true. Science
does translate much better than, say, history or law or literature. We can
read other people's literature, but that is for most people an effort; most
people rely on translations, so it's very different. In science you don't
need translations.

Do you feel that modern scientists have an ethical role to play in the world?

Very definitely. Of course we don't all agree about ethics, but still the
ethics of science I think is extremely important to most of us. First of all,
not claiming to know more than you know. That's the most important thing,
that science is about uncertainty rather than about certainty. So it's very
different from law where everything has to be in black and white, and it's
different from religion too. This tradition of admitting when you're wrong is
very important. In science when you're proved wrong you just goodhumouredly
say 'well, yes, I was wrong', which other people find not so easy.

You describe yourself as an optimist - why is this?

The reason I'm optimistic is easy to see; it's because I came through the
1930s. I was a teenager in the 1930s, when things were from every point of
view much worse than they ate, it's an opportunity for doing better.

Freeman Dyson with the statue of Fred Hoyle

Freeman Dyson with the statue of Fred Hoyle in the grounds of the Institute
of Astronomy, Cambridge, June 2003. ?Photo and copyright Anna N. Zytkow

So there are many reasons, but I think having lived through bad times is the
main reason. World War II was bad enough, but it was nothing like as bad as
we expected. We had read Aldous Huxley's Brave New World and he starts out
with anthrax bombs - well, we expected anthrax bombs, there's nothing new
about anthrax. It never happened, so we were lucky.

In all sorts of ways we were lucky; of course England had a better war than
many places. But still, it was a tough war and nevertheless we survived, so,
having lived through that, I can't take the present problems so seriously. I
think none of the present-day problems are as bad as what we faced then.

And you see science and technology as being part of the solution?

It has been, yes, especially if you go to China and countries in Africa. They
have a very different view of science because they know they absolutely need
it. You can't imagine China in its present state of economic growth without
modern technology, and of course China has got enormously more prosperous
just in the last ten years. They have a very positive attitude toward
technology, including genetic engineering.

The same is true of the people I know in Africa. For them, science really is
a necessity of life. They don't have such mixed feelings about it.

Do we have a job to do as scientists here in the rich world, to persuade
people that the doomsaying isn't necessarily correct?

Yes - but I don't try to impose my views on everybody. It's quite good to
have some people to go around preaching gloom and doom, but I don't happen to
agree with them. And I think it's unfair if we try to impose those views on
the Chinese and the Africans.

What have you found fun about being a scientist?

The thing I have found most delightful is having friends all over the world.
I just spent a couple of weeks in China. You are greeted there as a friend
and colleague, and immediately you talk the same language, even if it is not
Chinese! I don't have a word of Chinese, but still we could communicate
pretty well.

Without the science I would just be a tourist and it does make a huge
difference, having a professional contact. Of course, there are other
professions which have the same kind of international spread - if you're a
musician it's the same - but not for most.

And what about the actual doing of science?

That of course is always fun, because, especially being a theorist, I am free
to jump around. I don't have to deal with apparatus, so if I get bored with a
problem I can just scrap it and start on something else, which is what I
frequently do. So I have great freedom, and especially in astronomy, we're
never running out of problems.

At the moment, the two most vigorously active branches of science are
astronomy and biology, and in both of them there is no shortage of
interesting things to do, and not likely to be for the next hundred years.

There is a theorem proved by Kurt Godel in 1931, which is the Incompleteness
Theorem for mathematics. The theorem says that if you have any finite
formulation of mathematics, that is, a finite set of equations and a finite
set of rules of logical inference, then you can write down statements within
the language that is defined that way, and you can prove that they cannot be
proved and that they cannot be disproved.

So given any finite system of mathematics, there are statements within the
system that you can't decide whether they are true or untrue by using the
rules, which is a very powerful and profound result. It means that any
formulation of mathematics is incomplete; there are always questions that you
can't answer within the system.

In fact it means that mathematics is inexhaustible - given any particular set
of rules there are questions that you can't answer. You always have to invent
new rules in order to decide new questions. So it's guaran end of problems
either.

I think you finding that consoling is probably the definition of being an
optimist!

The point is that having unsolved problems is what makes life interesting. To
me the idea of solving all the problems in science or in anything else is the
most gloomy prospect I can imagine.

About this article

Professor Freeman Dyson is now retired from his Professorship in Physics at
the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, where he spent most of his
working life. On 16th June, 2003, he gave the annual Dirac Lecture at the
Centre for Mathematical Sciences in Cambridge. His talk, entitled "Looking
for life in unlikely places: reasons why planets may not be the best places
to look for life", was recorded and edited by Bjorn Hassler and Adrian
Cullum-Hanshaw of the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical
Physics at Cambridge.

You can watch, or just listen to, this interview and the Dirac Lecture at
http://www.xscite.com/FreemanDyson.

Dr. Anna N. Zytkow of the Institute of Astronomy in Cambridge very kindly
allowed Plus to use photographs she took during Professor Dyson's visit to
Cambridge in June 2003.
_______________________________________________
tt mailing list
tt at postbiota.org
http://postbiota.org/mailman/listinfo/tt



-- 
- Bryan
http://heybryan.org/
1 512 203 0507


From shibinmohamed at gmail.com  Fri Jun 26 20:55:54 2009
From: shibinmohamed at gmail.com (Shibin Mohamed)
Date: Fri, 26 Jun 2009 23:55:54 +0400
Subject: [open-science] open science mailing list submission
Message-ID: <59097b0f0906261255v24eaf03bw6a252f8df4002d6e@mail.gmail.com>

please add to me the open science mailing list
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: http://lists.okfn.org/pipermail/open-science/attachments/20090626/8caf14e6/attachment.htm 

From Tim.Schweizer at luther.edu  Fri Jun 26 21:22:55 2009
From: Tim.Schweizer at luther.edu (Tim Schweizer)
Date: Fri, 26 Jun 2009 15:22:55 -0500
Subject: [open-science] Fwd: Biodiversity Databases Spread,
	Prompting Unification Call
Message-ID: <93f340550906261322w7f0613e0w17313a838a482a52@mail.gmail.com>

Is open-science part of this?
-Tim

Tim Schweizer, Ph.D.
Office: (001) 563.387.1131
Mobile: (001) 563.581.9716
E-mail: Tim.Schweizer at luther.edu


*Science* 26 June 2009:
Vol. 324. no. 5935, pp. 1632 - 1633
DOI: 10.1126/science.324_1632News of the Week Biodiversity Databases Spread,
Prompting Unification Call * Claire Thomas *

Scientists increasingly recognize the value of collaborative, open-access
data sharing for understanding the world. But there's still a wide gap
between wanting to share and figuring out how to do it right, discovered
those who attended an international meeting on biodiversity this month. The
goal of e-Biosphere 09, a meeting for creators and users of the Encyclopedia
of Life, the Consortium for the Barcode of Life, the Catalogue of Life, and
other major efforts to build and manage open-access biodiversity databases,
was to figure out how to combine data from at least 100 systems into one
gigantic, online, open-access database that will eventually cover all life
on Earth, with lots of information, including primary research. But whether
these researchers are ready to create one-stop shopping for biodiversity
remains to be seen.
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: http://lists.okfn.org/pipermail/open-science/attachments/20090626/6a2984cf/attachment.htm 

From rufus.pollock at okfn.org  Mon Jun 29 12:28:47 2009
From: rufus.pollock at okfn.org (Rufus Pollock)
Date: Mon, 29 Jun 2009 12:28:47 +0100
Subject: [open-science] Open Database License (ODbL) v1.0 Released
Message-ID: <b68e90820906290428yb8d882ay291aba5f07de21ed@mail.gmail.com>

[Apologies for any cross-posting] Open Data Commons have released v1.0
of the Open Database License (ODbL) a share-alike license for data and
databases. See the full announce below.

This is big news for anyone working on open data so please
redistribute to all interested individuals and communities.

Regards,

Rufus

  ~~ Open Database License (ODbL) v1.0 Released ~~

<http://www.opendatacommons.org/2009/06/29/open-database-license-odbl-v10-released/>

Open Data Commons are delighted to announce the release of v1.0 of the
Open Database License (ODbL):

  <http://www.opendatacommons.org/licenses/odbl/>

The Open Database License (ODbL) is an open license for data and
databases which gives users freedom to use, reuse and redistribute
subject only to the requirement of attribution and share-alike.

This license, the first of its kind, is a major step forward for open
data. There are currently very few licenses available suited to data
and databases and none which provide for share-alike (existing
share-alike licenses such as the GPL, GFDL and CC By-SA are all
unsuitable for data).

The development of the ODbL, has been a major effort extending over
more than one and half years with an intensive consultation and review
period for the last 6 months. We'd like to express our thanks to the
communities and individuals who have contributed during this time.
Have fun using it!

### About Open Data Commons

Open Data Commons, http://www.opendatacommons.org/, exists to provide
legal solutions for open data. In March 2008 it launched the first
ever open data license: the Public Domain Dedication and License. Open
Data Commons is an Open Knowledge Foundation project run by its
advisory council and like the Foundation is a not-for-profit effort
working for the benefit of the general open knowledge community.


